					Twee Editors (It's a joke, son)

Terry Loveall <loveall@iinet.com>
http://modest-proposals.com/

This software comes with no warranties or binaries. Compile and use at your
own risk.

For years I have been looking for a 'reference' text editor. You know, an
edit engine, in source, that performs all of the basic edit functions
to generate new text files or modify old ones. Do search, goto line number,
insert characters, delete lines and characters, and has an 'undo'.

Couldn't find one so finally rewrote Anthony Howe's 1991 Obfuscated C Code
winning editor, ant, to a basic screen editor. Then worked it over until I
had both a basic console text editor (with and w/o help screen) and an X
editor, all built on the same foundation.

The 'Twee Editors' package includes:

uem: a minimalist console text editor with no built-in help in less than 500
	lines of source.

ue: a minimalist console text editor with built-in help in 500 lines of source.

ux: a minimalist X text editor with marked blocks, cut, copy paste and
	built-in help. 1100 lines of source (X, blocks, cut, copy and paste more
	than double the size).

The console text editors use the basic termio for cursor/screen control. The
binaries are libc only. No curses required. Suitable for linux boot floppies.
Bianry size can be less than 6k.

The X text editor requires only libc and libX11. No X toolkit required. Size
is 12.5k, smaller than the asm only text editor e3.

These editors are released into the Public Domain. Do with them what you
will.

Installing:

uem, ue and ux comes as source only. Compile all three with 'Make'

Copy the binaries to a directory on the search path, e.g.

	/usr/local/bin or /usr/X11R6/bin

Copy the man pages 'ue.1' and 'ux.1' to '/usr/man/man1/'.

For the smallest usable binary, get sstrip from Muppet labs at:
http://www.muppetlabs.com/~breadbox/pub/software/ELFkickers-2.0a.tar.gz
build and use instead of strip. sstrip will remove an additional 1.5k.

ue size without strip:	43k
ue size with strip:		7.6k
ue size with sstrip:	5.9k

Operation:

uem, ue and ux require a file name. If a file name is not provided, they will
refuse to run. If the file exists, the file is opened for editing, if not, the
file is created by writing the newly entered text to disk.

There is a status line containing 'Line#', 'col', last key entered in hex and
optionally, for ue and ux, how to invoke help. The prompted search string and
goto line-number string are also displayed on the status line.

For all three, the text buffer size and undo buffer size are fixed at 1M,
Horizontal width, vertical height and tab size (4) are also fixed. Change the
source and compile to suit your needs.

The search string is retained and redisplayed. Use ^H to erase prior
characters in the search string. Undo is not implemented for input to the
search string.

Limitations:

Can't change file name from within ue.

No redo, but the structure is there.

ue and uem: No marked blocks and associated cut, copy and paste. Use gpm in
a bare console or use the mouse/Xclipboard features from xterm/rxvt to
copy/paste.
